Dr. Joshua Lingel — Islam Apologetics | i2 Ministries
Skip to main content
About i2 Ministries
Mobilize. Equip.
Energize.
Our mission is to mobilize, equip, and energize believers to reach Muslims with the Gospel.
Our vision is to see a global movement of people equipped to love and reach Muslims for Jesus Christ.
View Our Mega Strategy
→
Who We Work With
Trusted by some of the largest
Christian Organizations
Our Global Impact
Launching the Every Muslim for Christ
Initiative
1M+
Christian Leaders Trained
2,000+
Certified Trainers Globally
10K+
Outreaches Mobilized in 70+ Countries
1,500+
MA Level Students
Invite Joshua to Train Your Group
President & Founder
Dr. Joshua
Lingel
Professor, Apologist, and Missional Strategist
Joshua Lingel taught Christian Apologetics to Islam in the Biblical Studies & MA Apologetics Departments of Biola University & Talbot School of Theology. He received an award from the Billy Graham/Leighton Ford ministry in Evangelism for leading students to evangelize 4–5,000 Muslims in mosques, restaurants, and halal shops in Los Angeles.
"Train the global church to evangelize the Muslim world in one generation."
— A calling received at age 18 from the Holy Spirit
Joshua is passionate about finishing the Great Commission among 2 billion Muslims in this generation. He focuses on strategy, mobilization, and training — mainly serving the largest global denominations and ministries. i2 conducts national pastors congresses training 1–20,000 leaders launching the Every Muslim for Christ Initiative across 50+ countries.
He serves on the Global Council of Missions (GCM) Board, Transform World (2005–2033), and the Strategic Resources Group (SRG) Advisory Board.
Education
M.A. Islamic Studies/Islamic Societies & Cultures — School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), University of London. M.A. Philosophy of Religion & Ethics — Talbot School of Theology. B.A. Political Science — University of Washington.
Watch
The
Vision
Watch
See Joshua
in action
Global Impact
Training initiatives
worldwide
×
‹
›
Our Story
We believe in
change
Founded in 2003, i2 exists to establish a global missions force to effectively evangelize Muslims. i2 provides training and resources to national denominations, discipleship movements, catalytic networks, ministry schools, and local churches.
i2 partners with the best evangelical scholars and experts worldwide to help the global church address the challenge of Islam through training, conferences, and congresses.
i2 Ministries conducts national congresses internationally for catalytic Christian movements, training 1–20,000 pastors at a time, to bring a solution addressing the missional and ideological challenges and finishing the great commission among Muslims.
Whether training the apologist debating Muslim scholars or the oral learner pastoring a church in the heart of Africa, i2 exists to serve the global church and equip individuals to evangelize Muslims.
i2 offers the most comprehensive training program in the world for reaching Muslims through its Mission Muslim World University (MMWU). MMWU's video-based training makes the best scholarship available to believers anywhere on earth in multiple formats, levels, and languages — with over 30 courses.
Learn more
→
Free Resource
Equip yourself with the
full picture
Download our free ebook exploring the scope of the Muslim world — the statistics, the stories, and how the Church is responding to the greatest missional challenge of our time.
Get the Free Ebook
→
What We Stand For
Our core
values
01
Radical Discipleship
Because He loves us and we love Him, we obey His commands and sacrifice personal security and comfort for the sake of Jesus and to be faithful witness for His fame in the earth.
02
Biblical Missions
The Bible is the infallible, inerrant, and inspired Word of the one and only God. The Scriptures alone provide the entire basis for the mission, vision, strategy, and our training.
03
The Church
The Church is God's chosen instrument to bring hope and love to a hurting world. He gave His church the role of preserving and protecting His truth through local assemblies.
04
Consecration
A life committed to the leadership of the Holy Spirit, the producing of spiritual fruit, and the practice of spiritual disciplines — especially meditating on God's Word, prayer, and fasting.
Endorsements
What leaders are saying about
i2 Ministries
"
i2 ministry is undoubtedly the most vibrant ministry currently, in terms of mobilizing, training and equipping leaders to reach the unreached people groups especially the Muslims. The WISE Global App is the most effective and easy to use tool in our quest of fulfilling the great commission.
Ps. Bright Nyamedor
National Director, Ghana Evangelism Committee
"
i2 Ministries is a wonderful partner helping us train and equip thousands of pastors to reach Muslims for Christ.
Dr. Kwame Bansah
Former General Secretary, Assemblies of God Ghana
"
We are seriously pursuing this Initiative as part of our denominational agenda taking advantage of the resourceful WISE Global app they have developed for this purpose.
Ap. Eric Nyamekye
Chairman, Church of Pentecost
"
I believe now is the time not only for Tanzania but also for all of Africa to receive the Every Muslim for Christ Initiative, which is the best kept secret in the world for the body of Christ that needs to come to the surface and no longer remain hidden.
Dr. Barnabus Mtokambali
Archbishop, Tanzania Assemblies of God
"
Having personally reviewed the proposals and teaching materials I can see that this organization will provide an educational and resourcing framework for the church that currently does not exist. There is no ministry that provides better training in churches for Ministry to Muslims than i2 Ministries.
Dr. Josh McDowell
President, Josh McDowell Ministries
"
I know of no other training ministry even close to the equal of i2 Ministries. Joshua is a leader of leaders and brings a prophetic exhortation and encouragement to train each Christian in our churches young and old to reach Muslims.
Dr. Michael Licona
Ph.D., Northwest University
"
As the Iron Curtain fell in the twentieth century, so the Islamic Curtain shielding the Muslim world from the Gospel is destined to fall in the twenty-first. The courses in i2 Ministries' curriculum will help equip churches to reach Muslims effectively.
Dr. William Lane Craig
President, Reasonable Faith
"
I am thrilled and overjoyed with the ministry of i2 Ministries. I have never had a student with more vision, with more passion and with more excellence than Josh Lingel. Because Josh Lingel is at the helm, I could not be prouder to give it my fullest endorsement.
Dr. JP Moreland
Professor of Philosophy, Biola/Talbot
"
The best qualification for Joshua Lingel is that he is a man of God. He has a prophetic message for the worldwide church today. His ministry is making a great difference in the Brazilian Church, helping train more than 1,000 workers.
David Botelho
President, Horizontes America Latina, Brazil
"
As Senior Pastor of the Rock of Roseville, a church of 2,000, we were privileged to host i2 Ministries. They provided world-class training that was extremely relevant and prophetic for our church. We heard RAVE reviews!
Pastor Francis Anfuso
Rock of Roseville Church, CA
"
I believe the need to reach 2 billion Muslims is so paramount it should demand our utmost concern. i2 is a group dedicated to reaching the Islamic world and utilizing available resources in technology to facilitate that. I heartily endorse this ministry!
Dr. Robert Coleman
Chair of Evangelism, Trinity Seminary
"
Josh's passion, scholarship, and vision have been translated into making helpful evangelistic, cultural and apologetic resources available to the wider church in a highly accessible way. I commend Josh and i2 Ministries for their efforts.
Stuart McAllister
VP Training, Ravi Zacharias International
Statement of Faith
We affirm the
Lausanne Covenant
Widely regarded as one of the most significant documents in modern church history, the
Lausanne Covenant
emerged from the First Lausanne Congress in 1974 and defines what it means to be evangelical.
Introduction
We, members of the Church of Jesus Christ, deeply stirred by what God is doing in our day, moved to repentance by our failures and challenged by the unfinished task of global evangelization. We believe the gospel is God's good news for the whole world, and we are determined by his grace to obey Christ's commission to proclaim it to all mankind and to make disciples of every nation.
The Purpose of God
We affirm our belief in the one eternal God, Creator and Lord of the world, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, who governs all things according to the purpose of his will. He has been calling out from the world a people for himself, and sending his people back into the world to be his servants and his witnesses, for the extension of his kingdom, the building up of Christ's body, and the glory of his name.
Isaiah 40:28; Matthew 28:19; Ephesians 1:11; Acts 15:14; John 17:6,18; Ephesians 4:12
The Authority and Power of the Bible
We affirm the divine inspiration, truthfulness and authority of both Old and New Testament Scriptures in their entirety as the only written word of God, without error in all that it affirms, and the only infallible rule of faith and practice. We also affirm the power of God's word to accomplish his purpose of salvation.
The Uniqueness and Universality of Christ
We affirm that there is only one Saviour and only one gospel, although there is a wide diversity of evangelistic approaches. Jesus Christ, being himself the only God-Man, who gave himself as the only ransom for sinners, is the only mediator between God and people. There is no other name by which we must be saved.
The Nature of Evangelism
To evangelize is to spread the good news that Jesus Christ died for our sins and was raised from the dead according to the Scriptures, and that, as the reigning Lord, he now offers the forgiveness of sins and the liberating gifts of the Spirit to all who repent and believe.
1 Corinthians 15:3,4; Acts 2:32-39; John 20:21; Luke 14:25-33; Mark 8:34
Christian Social Responsibility
We affirm that God is both the Creator and the Judge of all. Every person, regardless of race, religion, colour, culture, class, sex or age, has an intrinsic dignity because of which he or she should be respected and served, not exploited. We affirm that evangelism and socio-political involvement are both part of our Christian duty.
The Church and Evangelism
We affirm that Christ sends his redeemed people into the world as the Father sent him. In the Church's mission of sacrificial service, evangelism is primary. World evangelization requires the whole Church to take the whole gospel to the whole world.
The Urgency of the Evangelistic Task
More than 3.14 billion people still haven't been reached with the gospel. We are ashamed that so many have been neglected. There is now, however, in many parts of the world, an unprecedented receptivity to the Lord Jesus Christ. We are convinced that this is the time for churches to pray earnestly and launch new efforts to achieve world evangelization.
The Power of the Holy Spirit
We believe in the power of the Holy Spirit. The Father sent his Spirit to bear witness to his Son; without his witness ours is futile. Worldwide evangelization will become a realistic possibility only when the Spirit renews the Church in truth and wisdom, faith, holiness, love and power.
The Return of Christ
We believe that Jesus Christ will return bodily, personally, and visibly, in power and glory, to consummate his salvation and his judgment. This promise of his coming is a further spur to our evangelism, for we remember his words that the gospel must first be preached to all nations.
Stay Connected
Join the
movement
Get updates about global missions in the Muslim world and be the first to know about new training resources.
Get the Free Ebook
→
Partner With Us
×
Free Resource
When Muslims
Confront the Faith
Nearly 2 billion Muslims have never met a Christian. Download this free ebook to discover the scope of the missional challenge — and how the Church is responding.
Get the Free Ebook
→
Free. No signup required.
